
Cragside.
October /85 
Rothbury.


My dear Dyer
I have been meditating upon
the best method of putting the supreme
administration of the establishment to
which we are both devoted upon a
better footing.
The following matters oppress me.
I   I ought not longer to delay informing
the Board that it expends £300 pr an
on a Curator one moiety of whose
duties (that of supervising cultivation)
is performed by others, & of the other
moiety a half is executed by clerks.
performance of my own duties. You
II  I am not at ease in respect of the
have releived me of all administration
of the Garden, have undertaken the
curator's duties as cultivator &c,
have kept up & enormously increased
the Indian, Foreign, Colonial & Home
correspondence, extended the Museums
& conducted endless petty, & often
vexatious jobs; leaving me the
Arboretum in the hopes that I should


further find time to proceed with the Indian flora.
You have fulfilled your part in this arrangement to my
immense relief & to the great advantage of the establishment
in every way - - but my part has been a failure & to me a
of them sufficient work for me, & they are incompatible.
very distressing one. The Arboretum or the Flora are either
III Of the two the Arboretum is clearly my first duty, but I can
do nothing there without such aid as Smith once was to
me, or as Nicholson could be were his services, wholly
at my disposal. As it is, for reasons with which you are
familiar, I cannot command Nicholson's services, & the
Arboretum suffers.
Now whereas it would be possible so to arrange without
me that the Arboretum should be well served, I see no
prospect of the Indian flora being completed without me
Except your own, Hiern's & Clark's contribution to it, I am
profoundly dissatisfied with all others & so I think are Indian
Botanists


IV. It is full time to introduce into the supreme administration of
Kew an officer who should relieve you of many or all of the
petty duties of administration, & who should be, or be in training
to be, assistant Director under you.
This all points to my retirement as the solution of the
difficulties & my devoting myself to the Flora Indica &
the unofficial supervision of publications at the Herbarium
This I earnestly desire, I do think, I could thus be most
time
usefully employed & be at the same of use to the Herbarium
My retirement, & the suppression of the curatorship would
leave the way open for you to start afresh with a staff
organised as you think best, & in the formation of which you
would have my best aid & wishes -- My idea still is that
you should have a Bailiff at £150, with charge of Stoves &,
labor & supervision under you of the whole Establishment
as Smith now has. -- That Watson should be chef de table[?]
with the Temperate House added to his present charge in that


Nicholson should have the charges of the Nomenclature throughout the
Establishment . Binden might I think be suppressed, but you will
want Truelove to play Garrett's part in the Arboretum.
By this arrangement you would free two houses, & curtail expenditure
Binden's house might go to Nicholson, & the Directors be converted into
offices, the Director receiving an allowance for a house. Dewar would
have the present office for a house.
For my part I earnestly desire to retire -- I can afford it -- I am in
my 69th year & the 21st of Directorship -- I am getting deaf & stiff, & no longer
fit for active Garden duties, but not too old for much work in the
Herbarium & supervising publications there (sorely needed). I should get
rid of the expense of the Kew House, & live at Sunningdale, coming
3 days or more a
weekly to Kew. Finally retirement before I am too old to
enjoy the grass or perhaps even to cross my paddock would be
are inexpressible relief. I have nothing to gain by staying on,
you & the Board ought to be all the better off by my retirement
Ever affey yrs
JDHooker


