Rothbury 13 Oct /85


My dear Dyer
I received yours of 11th just after


I had posted one to you yesterday, in which
I forgot to mention the profusion of Ferns
every where here; these being as much a feature
as the Gaultheria Heathers & Rhodods.
your, our, etc
You have put the case quite fairly
do


but you it does not meet my difficulties
official or private. I should presume, or
have premised, that what brought the


matter of retirement so suddenly up again,
was that just as I was leaving for this place
I had a letter from I Palgrave, who had
kindly promised to look into all key affairs
(not with any idea of my retiring)
that I could well afford to retire & that


as well or even


as it appears to me I could do better for
myself & family by doing so -- this set me
thinking over all the matters upon which
I wrote to you -- What I cannot get over is
the absolute necessity as it appears to me,


to act
to be


of some one as, or in training as the future
Asst. Director. You cannot feel, as I & others
do, the force of the facts, that you have
shown an aptitude for grasping the principles


mustering the details, & pushing on the
 ∞ spheres of usefulness of Kew in all its de --
partments, Garden, collections, cultivation
Museum, Herbarium, Library, & this combined
with genuine love of all & every one of them.
You cannot carry out even your own


improvements, EG the Reports, a sore subject
with both of us, & one  that of which the
responsibility attaches to me. You have the
Common failing of men gifted like yourself,
of not seeing why others have not the same,
you cannot relalize the time &
quick perceptions; I for one cannot expect
to see Kew administered as it is except by


yourself. The Laboratory is beyond me, & so
are many of the subjects of Reports -- Were
either you or I to break down where
establishment


would the garden be? You are not always
strong & dear Harriet's health is a contant
source of anxiety -- my powers are failing --
I have been awfully deaf here, besides
suffering acutely in one ear -- I quite agree with


& in no way bound up together 
parallel, & I had no thought of regarding my
retirement as a help to get rid of Smith
 you that Smith's & my case are in no way 
my retirement.
What I did & do think is that would
enable you & the Board to put the


all round
to


establishment on a good footing & subsidize
the great changes which you agree with me
in thinking politic, but which nothing but
such
gant, a lever as my retirement would be
likely to
induce the Board to undertake.


Then with regard to the Arboretum, whetever
is done there now should have your
cordial approval -- The transplanting of
a large proportion of the collection trees should
have been effected 4-- 6 years ago & but
I hope
for Smith's break down would  have
been. The work I & Smith had for
10 years in undoing what my father


Truelove, & Nicholson, should not be
difficult -- Of course I should give every
even if
aid (e hal retired). - Then there is the


had done, is a warning to me not to
tread on the heels of a successor. My idea
is that when you shall have done up the
Garden, you should direct the replanting of
the Arboretum, which with a good bailiff 


formation of this side of the Lake upon which
so much depends, & the utilising many parts
planting
of the grounds by clumps of rare trees For all
the above taste & skill are required, & had we
equal taste & skill, we should still do all


differently, & I should do much that you
would not like, & which could not be
altered without a sacrifice of specimens
which you would shrink from.
Nor do I see how you get over the difficulty
of Flora Indica -- which will either occupy by
train, but very little.
Under all circumstances I believe my
duty to be to write to the Board stating what
establishment
I believe, to be the requirements of the place
giving
& stating my own views at to my own
occupation in future, offering my retirement.
As to your breaking away, it is impossible
after the recognition of your services & the
position & influence accorded to you by the Board,
having
Treasury,I.O.,F.O., C.O & all foreign correspondents.
 would be
It is not a mere case of put your hand to the
plough & turning back, but desertion of the
most complete satisfactory useful & popular
scientific department of Govt. Though I wish to
retire, it will not be without many regrets,
& none greater than would attend the idea of
in time of
abandoning you need.
My Camp home is very comfortable, far more so than 
far the best of my time & ability for the
 or be abandoned
rest of my life As to living at the Camp I
am in just the same predicament, as
Bentham was, I have 12' drive to the station;
he had 20' & I have rather longer in the


the Kew one, which is in many ways a burthen
to me.
With regard to your objections to making a
new start -- I quite understand them -- It was 
the same with me when my father died--
we are all liable to have to make new


starts in life. You could not have anticipated
my living for ever when you became Asst. Director!
Of late I had given up the idea of immediate
retirement, not supposing I could afford it after
the expenses of the Camp & looked to 70 as the
date -- As it is, the love of liberty within grasp


& of devoting myself to Flora Indica are
irresistable.
Your departmental changes are all good
sufficiently
but you forget that Truelove has a good
Garden, as well as Binden.
Then as to my being prop to the Institutions
me
of the Govt to consider at, they are free to
deal will me as with Balfour or Huxley,
make for me a consultative position without
direct responsibility & with time for my
beloved Flora. I have worked in or for Kew for
near 45 years, as a Collector, Describer & Director,
Lastly I see no prospect of the utilisation of
the Bentham bequest except under my
supervision. The Icones want for better &
closer watching than they get. Then there 
are your "Occasional papers" to bring out, the
Bot. Mag. (which suffers badly from my haste,
& my mind being so full of other matters, & my not


seeing more to the drawings in progress.
Then there are the reports on collections to
make or supervise, & no end of other Herbarium
matters.
we meet -- I shall do nothing in a
Enough, we can talk over matters when
hurry.
we are exceedingly concerned, -- but she
Your account of Harriet is distressing
has got over similar attacks with no
great suffering & we hope to find her
set up on our return. It is well she
did not go to Highstone.


Ever affy yrs
JDHooker


