Florence
April 15/81
Hotel Couronne d'Italia


My dear Dyer
I have been for days past
to you, but what with sight -- seeing all
looking for an opportunity of writing
day & sleepyness at night the days
fly like dreams.
We arrived here last night from
Cortina & found Harriet's letter of the
8 -- for which pray thank her, as I do


you for your very interesting one of
the 4th which I received before I left
Rome in which you ask about Dohrn's
Laboratory - This we could not see
till shortly before we left Naples


as he was away fishing at Capri
for the most of the time, & on our
return it was long before we could
we at last did
catch him, at the laboratory & 1 at his house


by appointment, after 3 calls -- he
took us over it himself, & I was quite
surprised at its extent, which as to
its interest & the completeness of 
the arrangements (as far as I could judge of


them), they quite came up to my came up to my
high expectations. The methods
rearing fish, Molluscs & ascidians
particularly interested me,  they seemed
quite perfect & he told me that
they daily discovered new devices for
deceiving the animals into pursung


their natural habits. The Libary is
very extensive one, & I looked at
published
several volumes of their records
the ilustrations of which were peerless
& the descriptive matter very full
the
including a resume of important
publications of all countries which
must be most useful to students.


He is more concerned at having no
support from America than at the
little he gets from England, for which
little however he expressed himself
most gratefull. Oddly enrough I met


at the table of the Hotel I was staying
at an American Lady who I had
seen dissecting a centipede at Salem
(Mass.) & who was about to take a



turn at Dohrn's laboratory! One
Oxford man was there, but I did not
catch his name -- I understood that he
was sent. A new feature is the room
for microscopic preparations, which
are sold, & which though but recently


started has assumed great proportions
already & is to a considerable extent
self supporting. The preparations were
admirably selected, mounted & named.
Altogether I was much struck with the


scale on which the whole affair is conducted
as with the arrangements scientific &c.
I find that the Aquarium is very popular
at Naples both with residents & visitors


& Dohrn is I think well satisfied with
it prospects.
Lady Hooker called on Madam Dohrn,
& likes what she saw of her: she speaks
Englich perfectly, I did not see her when
I called.
Of Rome I got rather sick -- it is so


overpowering & the sightseeing very
laborious. The skill & labour of the
Great Christian Architects in turning the
material of the heathern temples into


Churches is marvellous, but most
unsatisfactory at the best, & even
suggesting the fact that the buildings
far the more wonderful of the two.
from which the materials came were
comparative merits of marble & bronze
I never before had a clear idea of the
& am surprised to find how much
more realistic the latter seems to me


of the two. Of all the marbles, I never
to think that you could arrest the
knew one of which you were tempted
on the other hand
action portrayed; -- whilst the you
bronze runners in the Naples Museum.
feel that you could trip up the
-- that if you had your foot before one
he would be down on his face in a
moment. -- I was much struck too


with the advantage discoloration gave
to the marble -- I am sure that the
so called dying gladiator's perfection
it enhanced by this, it is the most


impressive piece of sculpture I ever saw
it compells admiration in every one.
The bad light in the Vatican renders it



impossible to do justice to Raphael's
greater works. Of the pictures Raphaels
Transfiguration I think quite the finest
I ever saw, except some of the Venetian --
upon the whole the whole Rome did not
impress me with the power of paint as
a vehicle for art, as Venice always


with great frescoes, whose great merit,
has , & I am rather disappointed
their luminisity luminosity, seems to
me to be obtained at the expense of
vigor & force. As to the old Roman
paintings of to which you allude, their
most marvellous freedom is  their great
merit, with here & there of expression.
singular power
No doubt the old Greeks, who after all
were the roman  artists of Rome, were
as great in painting as in sculpture &
it is hard to say when it began. We saw
yesterday at Cortina, a slab of slate
with the head of a muse painted
on it in some unknown indestructible
materal belonging to the Pelasgic or
Etruscan period, which was of surpassing
beauty, the rose tint the face perfectly
preserved. It is unique & has nothing


in common in material or method,
with the paintings in the Etruscan tombs
of which we saw examples at Orvieto
( in the tombs themselves) & which appears


to me not to differ from Pompeii work
which is not frescoe, rather tempera? I suppose
these Etruscans or Pelasgi (or both) must
have been wonderful fellows -- a
bronze
brass lamp, preserved also at Cortina


is the most wonderful piece of casting
I ever saw & the beauty of the design &  
workmanship were no less remarkable 
than the skill & knowlege of casting displayed. 
I have a protograph of it & of the Muse too. 
Of St. Peters it is difficult to speak,


its proportions are gigantic, but take
time to realise, & I think that some of
the smaller churches (still vast) are
incomparably more impressive as


well as beautiful -- one thing at
St Peters however took my breath
away, it was the view of the interior
of the dome from the lower galery
of its drum -- it is covered with 
heads of
gigantic gold murials of saints & 


Popes & which tower one over the  
other meeting in the cupola, & all
gazing down on you, the uppermost from
a canopy like heaven itself of infinite


distance -- the slimness of the Galley, real
narrrowness of the footing, & the stupendous
depth below, where men & women walking
looked like ants, all hightened the


effect. The Dome is smaller than that
of the Duomos here, but looks inmeasurably
as seen from outside
greater. This loses I think from being
8 gonal in contour. This & the painting


of the inside (huge frescoes) bring it all
down to the eye is much as the 
dome
gold mosaic
arrangement of heads in St Peter's raises
 it. St. Peters is not to be compared
I think with our St. Pauls in proportion
& composition -- I think our dome &


drum are perfect -- as best seen from
Waterloo bridge.
As to the greater ruins, as the Arches
Colosseum (as they now spell it &c) really
they are so familliar from Piranesi's   


engraving & Panini's paintings (which
one sees more of at home than at Rome,
that they produce no new impression or


rather they diminsh that we formed
from these masters. We were charmed
circular
with Tivoli & Albano, the old crater
Lake of which is very interesting -- I made
a point of going to "Tre Fortane" the Trappist
in the Campania
convent cured of fever by Eucalyptus!!! The
fact is that it was inhabited by a few most
who died off like flies.
lazy monks -- these were succeeded by the


Trappists who anon brought 500 acres under
 cultivation of all sorts including a few
now multiplied by thousand or more seedlings 
 Eucalyptus -- of course the Sanitary state of
nevertheless
the locality improved at once, but no fewer
there
than 3 died of fever last year the govt. allowed
a gang of 80 convicts & a guard of soldiers to
together
aid in the cultivation, & this, with a subsidy,
depends for its continuance, on the fever
Eucalypts planted
being kept down & so of course the monks
attribute all to the Gum trees which
seem to me to have grown wretchedly compared 
to what one sees in the Riviera & I saw
very little Eucalypts elsewhere & no good ones
Campania
anywhere -- the Winters are too cold




I must now draw this to a close   
I am glad that you have set Jurd
on the Lodge & road -- I suppose we


cannot finish this years estimates
as a Urinal is much wanted &
planting the plot of ground opposite.
funds for putting into order & 
Why should Mitford be unhappy
about dredging the Lake -- the Board
 never took the smallest interest in 
such matters before -- I am distressed


about the Araucaria Relei, what
does Walters say -- do they keep the
gravel on the shelves damp?


I am heartily glad that the Terrace
is a success --  I long to see it --  
& that Brace is a success
I wish for Science's sake, that


I could think it would be wise of
me to take any part in the Linnean
affairs. I cannot mistrust my own 


conviction that I should resign in  
a 12 month. What could I do? Without
a scentific colleague, a disaffected
secretary & Asst. Dr & a fairieact Treasurer
the condition is hopeless. My feeling is
that the Linnean must be worse before


it is better, when reform will be forced
upon it. -- I see nothing but snares,
pitfalls for one of my sort. Lubbock
bring the Society a little zoologically
 will do no harm in the chair, & may
when the want of Botanical support 
will be felt & I hope in time  
bring about its own cures.
Ever in haste with kindest 
regards to yourself & love to Harriet & 
the children
Yours affy
JosD Hooker


but do not trouble to do so
Address here if have time to write 
We shall be a week here --


