Oct. 12. 85
Cragside, Monday
Rothbury.


My dear Dyer
This is a wonderful place &
in some ways were exceeded my expectations.
It is not so much either a Garden or a
plantation, as a wilderness blossoming like
the rose -- & more comparable to the


Rhodod. region of the Himalaya than
any thing there known to me. Possibly
the Alleghenies of Sth Carolina may
present similar features of clothing &
colour. I hardly know how to portray it 


to you -- fancy a long rather steep slope
of craggy hillside, 1000 ft high, dipping
down to a roaring torrent, the whole
clothed from top to bottom for nearly


planted
2 miles with verdure -- in primis Rhod-
adendron & Kilmias Gualtheria, interspersed
the slopes with clumps of Oak, Scotch fir
Birch, Douglassfir, Aucuparia,
but these not in clumps
& Maples & in the ravine with these & all 
sorts of Conifers.  Along the paths cut in


every direction, & which above wind amongst
very fine rocks & cliffs are great areas
of Callunas & Ericas of all species &
varieties, Kalmias, Sedum & those sorts of


things inumerable -- great masses of Vaccinium
myrtilus now coloring gloriously. -- Arbuti &
Pernetyas with a number of rarer things
here & there. But above all Polygonum
affini (alias Brunonis) covers patches 20 to


40 yards square with the most brilliant
scarlet from the coloring of its leaves -- Berberis
purple & green, Cornel & other deciduous
shrubs all help to make up a scene
more fit for the stage than a Northumberland


moor. Sir W propagates these heaths by the
million -- for several years past he has
planted annually 650000 plants of sorts,
& he offers us any quantity from his very


extensive nurseries. I am sure you will
be glad of a lot for your beds of colored
shrubs & I have offered to exchange
with him for the purpose, & that his
Gardner, a very superior quiet man


should come to Kew & select from our
Cultivat. nursery. Just round the house
which stands some 200 ft from above the
Gorge, is 100ft of rock-work, covered
with a profusion of smaller rock plants
which literally caulk the interstices
every where in a reticulated pattern. Many


interesting plants are growing here: quite
wild & what is odd to me is that there
appear no weeds -- no grass , or groundsel.
The Gardener says weeds do not trouble here 


procumbent

in such places. I forgot Cotoneasters
which are in masses over the rocks like the
waves of the sea & threaten to smother 
everything. I am surprised to find


several Cisti in this cold place, & have
House is very large & awkward, with several
asked for cuttings to bring away. The 
very large rooms & a charming collection of
modern pictures water & oil. On the


whole the most pleasing collection of the kind
that I ever saw: In the Gigantic drawing room
is a wonderful marble Erection that projects
at one end & reaches from the floor to the
ceiling -- it is an extraordinary and rich design
in marble & alabaster forming a cove


for the fire place, which is superb as to
marble -- but somehow the thing projects
most awkwardly & to my mind spoils the
room. I shall ask for a photograph of it for
it is exceedingly beautiful, though the
work of Norman Shaw who I do not love.


He built the house & for internal arrange
ments it does not do him credit in my
judgement. No doubt he had obstacles
The conservatory is excellent, but even


the electric light will not illuminate a
carved wainscot ceiling. The passages
are gloomy, the distances enormous,
the county is wild & sparsely populated
& you have a mauvais 1 1/2 hours from


Morpeth here after the long journey from 
London. Sir W does every thing himself-- Lady A
upwards of 80 is a cheery old Lady very clever
& well informed, she is up every day at 6 &


is her own housekeeper! Sir W's income is
said to be £100,000 per annum. He was a
solicitor till 40, he is 74 or 75 I think. He
has no family.
John Hancock has been staying, a most interesting
man. full of intellegence -- I spent this morning
in the Newcastle Museum with him -- the birds are


marvels of setting up & good arangement. His
modelling beats Landseer hollow, & comes up to
Hecknel. A Capt (Militia) Salvin (distant
relative of O. S.) has been here with an otter


& 2 cormorants, all trained to fish. The
O. follows him like a dog. We had 2 dishes of
trout from the beast & birds.
We leave on Wednendy, we I shall be
glad to get back, -- these big houses bore


me, though there is the very nicest company &
not too much of it & a paradise of nice
things to see outside & in: -- there is no
pleasing some people! --


with united love to Harriet,
Ever affy yrs
JDHooker


