

Kew 22 April /83


My dear Dyer
I was very glad get your
letter & good news of yourself & Harriet
How curiously your account of the


spring vegetation immediately South of
the Alps tallies with mine, though in
fact mine beats yours, for it has been


my lot to find a late spring in May &
even on the Mediterranean shores three
times running.
I met Dr Duckworth at the Rl. Institution
two nights ago & he told me of having
& Harriet.
seen you We went to Balfour's lecture


which was good as to matter, but very
inartistically delivered.
No I never saw Mr Murdo's garden, but
can imagine it's floriferousness under his
wife's care, for she is a capital practical
Gardener.
I take what you say about the Temp. 


plants were as fine in No 1 & in the
Museum No 3, as ever the to I saw them
in Australia & a reference to the figures of
S. Europe, Cape & Australia plants in the old
vols of Bot. Mag, shows what was then


should not stand on open wood-work.
However more can be done than is done
In old days the Banksias & other Australian


House -- we shall do very well in the wings
would better in wings
but what the centre wants is spring heat
& that sets the things in the ground off too
fast & dries the pots on the shelves which
octagons &


done under wretched glass houses.
We have settled on deBarg,  & he will I
hope be carried. 
a fortnight. I told him to prepare the
Bliss goes a his holiday tomorrow for 
pay sheets before he went for the


fortnight.
Smith came back last Friday night to
put his house in order, & in 10 days will
leave for the West, he calls himself 


well but does not look it.
I get on very well indeed with Garrett who
seems to me to get more work out of the men
than any foreman in his place has done
& goes about amongst them himself.


& it is very long since I have seen the
hard wooded things in the No 4 so well
done -- the house is quite brilliant now.
Watson behaves very nicely, but wants





looking up in details, -- especially in the
pits. He has got all the sick Palms in
the Chichona pit! Where there was today
no heat at all & the weather bitterly cold.
tropical
The pipes were not even heated! The Ferns


on the other hand are kept at boiling point.
I have my doubts of Master Derry's competence.
In the Arboretum, I have some heavy
in hand
transplanting work & I must get the lumber
within sight in the Zinnia garden out of
with Watson
the way. I begin No 1 tomorrow maing, the
things are all killing one another along its
paths, & the middle is a huge vacuum.


Bentham is pretty well, I am encouraging
him to arrange Munro's grasses & hope he
will. I fear he won't see his money back
if he does not pick up strength.
for Part I last part of Genera. He asked me


take last directions in case of his death,
to go & see him at Wilton? Place last week to 
cough & Mrs S is gone with him. Huxley has I
Spottiswoode is sent to Italy because of his his
hear been in bed for a week.
Tyndall & his wife have spent the afternoon
here -- they too are going into bricks & mortar.
you are invited to dine with the Pharmaceuticals
on the 22 May in Willis rooms, I have told
them that you are abroad & will be for some
time; & that I have informed you of the invitation
We had 3 or 4 days of S. W. mild weather,
followed by north Easters, which persist &
are vile.


 I have just heard from Brandis, who
will be here in a week. 
 With best love to Harriet & kind
Ever affectly yrs
 regards to Bessie White that was.
JDHooker


