
Oct 3/82


My dear Dyer
I have just received your
splendid long letter so full of interesting
news, for which I have nothing but snippets
to return.
The weather has been very fair indeed


with us not more than 2 or 3 rainy
days in all I think since you left,
a few showers being taken for granted.
The accunt we had of the railway
accident tallies with yours -- with the
addition that the train was leaving
down hill with an engine not half


heavy enought for the weight behind
& was rounding a curve.
Yes I know Frijberg, & thought it a
very naive old town -- that is its bye


ways where are many odd pieces of
old houses.
The Titi sea I never saw & thought
the B.F. rather dificient in water &
remember seeing one of their volkes trains


at the 1812 Exhibition & rather liked it.
I am glad that you saw the German school
as I have thought of it for Reggie -- i.e. if
it takes lads as old.


We shall be delighted to send plants to
de Berg.
I suddenly met Max Leichtlin at the
K. B. Station, I was emerging from the stairs as


he was going down & in my hurry I did
not recognise him though he shook me
cordially by the hand. He is one of the angels
that I entertained "unawares" years ago & he
has never forgotten it.


I shall shift Xanthoceras.
See Lavalle's by all means but you will not
be much taken with his Garden I fear --
he evidently never had (ie growing well)
half the things in his Catalogue, & of them
again half were killed in 1880 -1 -- he is


a perfect gentlemen -- you would see a
French country house & get regally entertained.
Madam L. would welcome Harriet --
There is no news here. Mitford has
been out with Lessels bringing a plan for 


the offices which I condensed in toto -- your
room was to be 10 ft. square! & at the

angle of the building facing the green &
(Mr Smith)
the Garden entrance! It took in Oliver's for
(Oliver)
whom no other residence was thought of but
Miss Hodgsons, which Mitford declares we
shall never get & the whole arrangement


was more like a rabbit warren than a
dwelling place.
Mitford asked the F.C. about what he (the F.C.)
had told me regarding the Palace, he first denied
what he said & then admitted it with the
assurance that he only referred to what had
passed a year ago! -- Meanwhile P. Fane
writes that the Queen would gladly give up


the Palace for an equivalent, adding !! Mr
Leferne has a scheme on the stocks, & when
"him". I shall go to town tomorrow &
 I go to town I will reopen the question with


see what I can do.
febrifuge
King has sent a copy of a memo to the
Govt of Bengal on the manufacture question,
which will well back up your letter. I
traverse much the same ground with like


results.
A long letter comes from Col. Henderson on the
subject of a quinine manufactory in Neilgherries --
it will require our careful consideration.


The proofs of L.U. Exams have come for
correction. I have corrected & returned them --
also proof of a very important Memo of yours
on the subject of the Bot examinations generally.


I have not ventured to do anything with
this. It opens up a large subject, points to
great defects in education, & perhaps some
too in the nature of the examinations that


prevail in the Universities, & which cover too
much ground in my opinion.
Miss North writes in good spirits from
the Cape; she has not given up the notion of
seeing Welwitschia, but doubts the practicability.


We have returned to our several quarters
from Bagshot -- I am bothered with invitations
which cost both time & money. Palms
are gone to press -- a bog of bones -- Liliacae we
just finished printing. I have named a
most curious genera of Juncea after in Thurm -- it
is more like a cross between Typha & Sparganium with
a strain of Cyperaceae -- but goes into Juniace.


Harriet drawings are fairly orthgraphed & await
her coloring. The Cycas will he heavy.  I like the
new conseratory foreman. I am particularly glad
that Leichler finds the Herb. ground improved
just


Barker is back & I am arranging for Brown
to go to Oxford & Walson to Dublin &c -- but
Smith tells me that the travelling money is all
expended. The Board having curtailed it -- they must
find it elsewhere. 
Yours aff. 
JD Hooker


